3D Reconstruction From Single RGB Image
0. Introduction:
1. team(project) name, mentor name, mentee names
2. What is 3d reconstruction
3. What should be the input, what do u expect as output
4. What is the state of the art right now? It is either compatible for transparent background and single object images 
i) shapenet dataset
or even if multi object image is passed through it , it only outputs a mesh of a single object
ii) pix3d -> mesh r cnn
5. Open3D library : 
What does it offer?
i) point clouds
ii) meshes (triangular and polygon) <- getting back to this later
iii) scene reconstruction


1. Simple Open3D approach
1. Point Cloud (RGBD image): 
i) How to find the D part of RGBD?
ii) About MiDaS
iii) Problems with MiDas (inverse depth map)
*  even if we invert the depth map, the output doesn’t actually reconstruct as expected *  
2.  Point Cloud: Masking and Concatenation 
i) GrabCut 
ii) Panoptic Segmentation and Auto masking (applied this for both RGB and D)
iii) Created PCD from RGBD of masks and concatenated
                        *  drawbacks *
3. Meshes in Open3D are awfully bad


2. Neural Network Part        
1. Meshes: Here comes the Neural Network part
i) Pixel2Mesh: Shapenet dataset: 
Drawbacks: only worked on trained images and even slightly different image couldn’t be rendered, not for real life images
ii) Explaining basis for our architecture: Pixel2Mesh
iii) Mesh RCNN:
Current inputs and outputs
What we modified


3. Mesh RCNN
1. Architecture
2. 2D backbone Masked RCNN -> detectron2
3. 3D part -> pytorch3d
4. Project Approach
1. As it is approach gives garbage masks and thus inaccurate meshes
2. We pass masks 
                i) Segmentation Model
                ii) Object Detection Model 
3. Inference runs
4. Merging Meshes (included in Inference)


5. Future Prospects
1. Find a better dataset or create it  
2. Train on that dataset 
3. Why we couldn’t implement it now ( GPU constraints )
Mentor: Soham Mulye                Mentees: Labhansh  Naik, Mrudul Pawar, Param Parekh